Conor Anthony McGregor, born 14 July 1988, is an Irish professional mixed martial artist and professional boxer. He is currently signed to the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), where he competes in their lightweight division and is the reigning champion. During his mixed martial arts (MMA) career, McGregor has competed as a featherweight (a division he was also a champion in), lightweight, and welterweight. As of 2017, McGregor is ranked 2nd on UFC's pound for pound rankings.

In 2008, McGregor started his MMA career and, in 2012, he won both the Cage Warriors Featherweight and Lightweight Championships, holding both titles simultaneously before vacating them to sign with the UFC. In 2015, at UFC 194, he defeated José Aldo for the UFC Featherweight Championship via knockout thirteen seconds into the first round. This was the fastest victory in UFC title fight history. Upon defeating Eddie Alvarez for the UFC Lightweight Championship at UFC 205, McGregor became the first fighter in UFC history to hold titles in two weight divisions simultaneously.

McGregor has established himself as the biggest pay-per-view (PPV) draw in MMA history as he has main-evented four out of the six highest selling pay-per-view events in UFC history. His headline bout with Nate Diaz at UFC 202 garnered the most buys ever for a MMA PPV event.

McGregor began his professional boxing career in 2017. In his debut boxing match, he was defeated by Floyd Mayweather Jr. via technical knockout.

Conor Anthony McGregor was born on 14 July 1988 in Crumlin, Dublin, the son of Tony and Margaret McGregor. He was raised in Crumlin and attended a Gaelscoil and Gaelcholáiste at both primary and at secondary level in Coláiste de hÍde in Tallaght, where he also developed his passion for sport playing association football. In his youth, he played football for Lourdes Celtic Football Club. At the age of 12, McGregor also began boxing at Crumlin Boxing Club.

In 2006, McGregor moved with his family to Lucan, Dublin, attending Gaelcholáiste Coláiste Cois Life. Following that, he commenced a plumbing apprenticeship. While in Lucan, he met future UFC fighter Tom Egan and they soon started training mixed martial arts (MMA) together.